[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Are you
curious about the afterlife?
Did you know you can safely
have an out-of-body adventure
without a traumatic accident
or a near-death experience?
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
and joining me
is the author of "Adventures
Beyond the Body,"
William Buhlman.
Over the past two
decades, William
has guided hundreds of people
with his personal system
of safe, self-initiated,
out-of-body adventures.
This is so fascinating.
Thank you for joining me.
>>WILLIAM BUHLMAN: Oh,
it's a pleasure to be here.
>>LISA: I am super
curious about this.
Why would someone want to have
an out-of-body experience?
>>BUHLMAN: Well,
simply for answers.
We live in a society
and a culture inundated
with all these belief systems.
And nowadays, people
really want to know
the truth for themselves.
And the only way
to attain that is
to have your own
profound experience.
People talk about spirit,
and soul, and source, and all
these concepts, but it's
an intellectual construct.
Imagine having your own ability
to obtain your own answer
through personal experience.
And that's why this subject
is just so important.
>>LISA: That's really
what it comes down to.
Anyone I've ever interviewed
is so full of conviction
when they've had their
own personal experience.
It's so great to be able to
have that personal conviction
that you know is true.
>>BUHLMAN: Oh yes.
>>LISA: Have you had an
out-of-body experience?
I've shared with my
audience that I've
had the near-death
experience and so forth.
Have you experienced that?
>>BUHLMAN: I've had
many over the years
because back in the '70s I
learned how to self-initiate
the experience.
A friend of mine had an
out-of-body experience.
And this was not on my radar.
I was not a believer in this.
But he had this profound
experience spontaneously.
It changed his life.
We were in college at the time.
And he'd come to
me with this, and I
wanted to experience what he
experienced because it was
so profound and life changing.
So I found there
were methods that you
could self-initiate out-of-body
experiences and do it safely.
So I actually practice
these techniques.
And over a period of--
it took 20-- on the 24th day,
I had my first experience,
and it was--
I can describe it briefly.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>BUHLMAN: But I was doing
this technique, which
I call the target technique,
and I'm laying down every night
as I'm going to sleep.
And one night, after every
night doing this program,
I awoke and I felt differently.
And I reached out my
hand, and my hand actually
entered the wall.
And that's when it hit me,
oh my god, this is real.
I've done it.
And I thought of standing,
and the next thing I knew,
I'm standing by the foot of the
bed looking at this lump, which
was my body.
And as I scanned, I'm in
awe, I'm in shock, really.
Oh my god, it is
real, it is real.
And as I looked
around, I noticed
there was somebody actually
appeared to be watching me
that was a
non-physical resident.
And that, to be quite
honest, it was shocking,
and I snapped back into my body.
And that was my
first experience.
But it was life changing.
That one experience opened
up this whole new world.
At the time, I was in
college studying sociology
and psychology, and I
felt like running out
through the streets saying,
oh my god, people, there's
other dimensions.
>>LISA: That's exactly--
>>BUHLMAN: And we can go there.
We can be empowered to
experience this for ourselves.
We don't have to depend
on books anymore.
And that's how I got
started in the early '70s,
and then I just became almost
obsessed with the topic
and wanted to do it more and
learn more and experience more.
>>LISA: All of that
without LSD, you know?
>>BUHLMAN: No, no drugs.
>>LISA: The whole-- right?
>>BUHLMAN: No, that's--
>>LISA: I mean,
Timothy literally
had to go through all
those experience with all
the mind-altering
substances, but you actually
did it yourself.
You mentioned you
found some material
when you were in college.
What was that called,
the what method that you
had your initial OBE with?
>>BUHLMAN: Oh, the
first method that I used
was the target technique.
>>LISA: Target-- what is that?
>>BUHLMAN: It's a very simple
technique where you imagine--
you select three targets in your
home that are remote from you.
It could be in someone
else's home, also.
And as you're laying
down meditating or before
going to sleep, you
imagine yourself
walking to these
objects, these targets,
and you become immersed in them.
You focus your state
of consciousness
away from your body
and on these targets
and as you're falling asleep.
And ideally what
happens is that focus,
that constant
focus will initiate
an out-of-body experience.
Our consciousness wants
to go where we focus.
We do it all the time.
We don't think about it.
You think of shoes.
You go to the shoe store.
>>LISA: Daydreaming-- yes.
>>BUHLMAN: Yeah.
But now that is--
I teach, well, over 25 methods.
But this is one of
the methods that
has become very, very popular.
over the last--
>>LISA: It's a good
beginner method.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes,
yes-- easy to do.
And it doesn't take
any special training.
>>LISA: So are you thinking
if you're in your bedroom,
you imagine the kitchen,
or are you imagining, like,
Italy or somebody else's house?
I mean, where in proximity
do you put these targets?
>>BUHLMAN: I recommend
that people do something
they're familiar with.
It could be a
painting you may have
made of something, a
sculpture, something
that you're personally
imbued with.
Your cat can be a target.
It doesn't have to be an
inanimate object, but something
that you know extremely well
and you can hold your attention
upon it.
>>LISA: OK.
So this is-- let me just
break this down for a second.
So you were aware of the fact
that your body was still there,
that you were
cognizant, and that you
looked down on your body
and then saw another being.
And then you said you
approached the wall.
Did you go through the
wall with your hand?
>>BUHLMAN: No, I never
went through the wall.
I just left my body and
saw this individual.
But in many
occasions after that,
I've walked through
walls and other things.
But--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>BUHLMAN: We're
non-physical beings.
That's what we truly are.
We have the ability.
It's endless abilities to
explore within ourselves.
>>LISA: Well, this
sounds amazing,
and I'm so excited that
you can actually teach
people to do it themselves.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes.
And that's what I've been
doing for 25 years now
and eight years at
the Monroe Institute.
And what I do is teach people
the techniques, the mindset,
which is very important, how
to control the techniques,
how to control your
state of consciousness,
how to get the
most out of it, how
to turn an
out-of-body experience
into a profound,
life-changing experience.
>>LISA: People are searching.
I mean, I did a Google search
for the near-death experience,
and 50 million searches come up.
I know that near death is
different than out of body.
Can you explain the difference?
>>BUHLMAN: Well, a near-death
experience is, of course,
a result of temporary--
>>LISA: Tragedy.
>>BUHLMAN: --death
of the individual.
And part of-- one of the
elements of a near death
and one of the essential
elements is the OBE.
People report this
leaving of their body.
But what many people
are unaware of,
and it's important
for people to know,
that you can have an
out-of-body experience
and self-initiate it.
They can be initiated by trauma.
But most people have
them spontaneously.
And matter of fact, they're
10 times more prevalent
than near-death experiences.
>>LISA: Out-of-body experiences?
>>BUHLMAN: Yes,
much more prevalent.
People have them all the time.
And often, because society
doesn't teach what it is
and what's happening,
they remain unaware.
They don't know what category
to put this experience in.
>>LISA: Now, I understand
that through your experiences,
over 25 years of
teaching this, you
had a health crisis in
the middle of all of this.
Explain what
happened and what you
discovered through that crisis.
>>BUHLMAN: Well, in
2011 I was diagnosed
with stage four cancer of
the lymph nodes and tonsils.
And--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>BUHLMAN: I went through
the traditional medication
and medical procedures.
But because I-- I feel it
helped me tremendously.
When I was recovering
from cancer,
I was having spontaneous
out-of-body experiences,
and I found them to
be incredibly healing.
On one experience-- and
I didn't initiate this.
This is what happened--
fully conscious
and I found myself, for
lack of a better word,
floating in a pure white cube.
And I was inward, no
doors, no windows,
and I was inwardly instructed
to stay there and float.
And it was like I was
bombarded with healing
energy or vibrations for
extended periods of time
out of my body.
And I feel strongly that--
this happened for
about, oh, a month.
>>LISA: Every night, every day?
>>BUHLMAN: About three,
four times a week.
And I feel strongly
that that helped me.
I recovered very quickly
from this serious surgery.
I had a full neck dissection.
And I recovered quick
enough that I was back
doing six-day workshops
in four months.
So I think that--
>>LISA: With even more of a
passion about the topic, right?
>>BUHLMAN: Oh, absolutely,
because it was so amazing.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>BUHLMAN: So there's a
lot of elements in this.
This is a deep subject.
It covers a lot of ground.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>BUHLMAN: Because it
gives us an opportunity
to connect with our
inner self, and that's
where all healing really begins.
It's all within us.
>>LISA: I'm so glad you shared
that story for anyone who's
going through any type
of traumatic healing
variance that they understand--
especially when you get
into the medical
system, and they
are brilliant with
what they know to do,
and they do what they
know to do with the body.
But if you can
assist that in going
into this other
realm or other level,
you can expedite your
healing or discover
some of the reasons
behind it even more.
>>BUHLMAN: Oh yes.
>>LISA: I think that's
what the journey's about.
>>BUHLMAN: And you
can open to healing.
A lot of people are not open.
It's in our energy bodies.
Healing-- a lot of people
feel that sickness or illness
starts from within.
It's energy blockages.
Now, and if that's
the case, imagine--
if all energy blockages and
illnesses start within us
and then manifest
outward into our bodies,
imagine if we could go
inward like the shaman have
been doing for 10,000 years.
What have shaman been doing?
They move into an altered state.
And they move the energy
of the individual.
They remove blockages.
They do it in a
ceremony, of course,
where they're using feathers
and all these other things.
But they're moving
your energetic
and they're opening
up your energy field
so that healing can occur.
We can do this ourselves when
we initiate these experiences.
It's quite self-empowering.
>>LISA: That's incredible.
That's true.
It's shown up through
history so many different.
>>BUHLMAN: Oh, yes.
>>LISA: And so let's
talk about what
you do at the Monroe Institute.
And this is so fascinating
to me that you guide people
through these experiences.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes, I teach
a six-day workshop--
it's called OBE Intensive,
and it is intense--
where each individual go
through a series of-- each day
there's five pretty much
hour-long exercises.
Each individual-- only
24 people can attend,
and they're each in
an isolation chamber.
And I speak to them, and we
have a very, very fine-tuned
audio system.
Each individual I speak to
through their headphones.
And we use sound technologies,
like Hemi-Sync and spatial
angular technologies
to help people get
into an altered state easier.
And then through
these programs, I
guide them to go
deeper and deeper
and to enter into these
states of consciousness that
allow each individual to have
their own profound experience.
And that's what's important.
There is no this is it.
There's no
philosophies attached.
Each individual has the ability.
They have their own experiences.
They come away with
their own conclusions.
And that's what I think
is so needed today.
There's no overview
that this is it
because each individual
decides what's real for them.
>>LISA: Yes, and we
have a beautiful picture
here of the Monroe Institute.
It's in West Virginia.
>>BUHLMAN: It's in Virginia.
>>LISA: Virginia.
>>BUHLMAN: In Faber,
Virginia, central Virginia--
beautiful, beautiful
200-acre property.
>>LISA: It's like
out-of-body tourism.
>>BUHLMAN: Well, many people
go every year, by the way.
>>LISA: Amazing.
Here's a picture of the chamber
that you're talking about.
Do people--
>>BUHLMAN: This is
the research chamber
that we use for brainwave
studies, by the way.
That is the primary
chamber used.
Each individual is
in another chamber.
It's similar in many respects,
but it's not copper lined.
So there's actually 24
individual isolation chambers
we call CHEC units.
And the unit on the
screen is the one
that's used for research.
>>LISA: Now, why would
you copper line it?
>>BUHLMAN: To keep out
all the EM radiation.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
>>BUHLMAN: Absolutely.
You want a null point
so that people are not
influenced by any kind of
cell phone or radio waves
of any kind.
>>LISA: Because that
definitely impacts our field.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes, yes.
Our fields are
constantly impacted.
So whatever we can do
to minimize that when
you're in meditation,
it's always good.
>>LISA: Yes.
That's interesting.
So when they go into
it, what is the purpose
of the individual units?
You can't do this
with other people?
>>BUHLMAN: Basically so
that everyone is isolated
so there's no aura
interference with other people.
It's darkened.
It's almost-- you
have a curtain.
You enter in, and you can
make it completely dark.
And all you have
is your headphones.
And it's the same concept
of the float chambers
that are so popular.
That each individual
has that ability
to be in their own kind of
float chamber, so to speak.
>>LISA: That's interesting.
And then it's a
curtain, so you're not
enclosed in a tiny room if
you're claustrophobic, right?
>>BUHLMAN: You can open the
curtain if you choose to.
>>LISA: That's interesting.
>>BUHLMAN: But each
individual-- and there's
each person has her
own, which is important.
It makes it quite--
I think it's the only place
in the world that provides
this individualized training.
>>LISA: Now, you are a
trained hypnotherapist.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: So you take people
through these guided journeys
out of their body, right?
>>BUHLMAN: To the
best of my ability,
I guide them to have their
own experience, whatever
that may be.
Some people-- when you
open up, things happen.
People have past
life experiences.
People have contact
with loved ones.
Anything can happen
once you open up.
But my primary
goal in my class is
to teach them not only how to
have an out-of-body experience,
but how to control it and
get the most out of it.
>>LISA: I know of several people
who have gone through this,
and some of the advanced work,
they actually go and they
help people in other
communities or other dimensions
where they help
finding lost children,
and they really do
incredibly profound work.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes, yes.
There's 16 major workshops,
all of them specifically geared
to a topic, whatever it may
be, contact, for instance,
retrieval, past lives.
>>LISA: Retrieval?
>>BUHLMAN: Yeah.
>>LISA: What is
that, soul retrieval?
>>BUHLMAN: Yes, soul retrieval.
>>LISA: Lost souls?
>>BUHLMAN: Well,
yeah, or assisting
those that may need assistance.
That's one of the classes.
I'm the instructor
for the out-of-body--
how to self-initiate
out-of-body experiences.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
So you can go and
help souls that
might be stuck or in
shock still and bring--
>>BUHLMAN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: --them into
different dimensions.
>>BUHLMAN: Absolutely.
That's the whole idea.
The whole thing is
about self-empowerment,
being self-empowered so
that you have the ability
to obtain the answers yourself.
>>LISA: Like a soul soldier--
it's amazing.
>>BUHLMAN: Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Now, why would somebody have
this experience otherwise?
If they just want to go
through self-exploration
or maybe they have
a fear of death,
would that help with that?
>>BUHLMAN: Oh, absolutely.
There's so many benefits.
Fear of death is one of the
great fears in our society.
>>LISA: Huge.
>>BUHLMAN: And imagine, once
you leave your body-- my fear
of death is completely gone.
I know because you
know from experience.
We've been lied to so much.
We've been told
we are our bodies.
We've been told that our brain
is the source of consciousness,
which these are lies.
And then we've been
told that we have
to depend on belief systems.
And what does that lead to?
Nothing but manipulation,
whether it be religious,
or political, or whatever.
Once you have your
own experiences,
you're free from that.
It's so self-empowering
because you have the ability.
You know from experience.
You no longer have to be the
pawn of some other person or--
>>LISA: Agenda.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: Propaganda.
Absolutely.
>>BUHLMAN: Which, as we
know, is very common.
>>LISA: Yes.
And that we are under
the numbness of it
all the time, that
we're constantly
led to believe what
we're led to believe,
and there's never an
opportunity to get
outside that massive
mind control,
I can call it, and
actually get out
of that to see what reality
is really like for yourself.
>>BUHLMAN: Oh, it is
incredibly exciting.
I can't emphasize this
enough, because finally,
finally you get to know
through personal verification.
And I tell you the truth.
What I found very quickly
in even my first few years
was simply this--
everything I had been led
to believe and learned,
they were all flawed
or just flat out lies.
I'm talking about
from childhood.
Almost every belief
that I was spoon fed
turned out to be, let's
just say, a manipulation.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>BUHLMAN: And
that's an eye opener.
>>LISA: Give me an example.
>>BUHLMAN: This whole
idea of hell, this whole--
I was brought up Lutheran.
And I was inundated
with this idea of hell
and you had to be saved, you had
to believe in this to be saved,
and this whole agenda
of you had to do this,
and the wages of sin are death.
I found the opposite to be true.
We're immortal.
We're powerful.
We create our own realities.
Finally, through your own
experiences, you get this--
finally, you can
look at this entire,
let's say, the drama that
we're involved on planet Earth.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BUHLMAN: And you realize, oh
my god, there's no truth here.
It's just the drama.
It's education
through experience.
But once you realize
what you are--
what's wild is that most people
will live to be 90 years old.
They have no clue where they're
going at the moment of death.
I mean, that's sad.
That's flat out catastrophic.
>>LISA: Right.
>>BUHLMAN: People plan
every moment of their day,
and they don't
know where they're
going at the most
important moment of life
and this transition.
That's unacceptable.
>>LISA: Imagine if we could
have those conversations.
I mean, I'm going through this
experience with my father,
and he's having massive
health challenges,
and he's a scientist,
hardcore scientist,
40-year orthopedic
surgeon, before
that military, MASH unit.
I'm trying to have this
conversation about, well,
how would you like to
experience communication
on the other side?
And he can't hear it
because he's a scientist.
God bless him for
being a scientist.
I mean, thank god.
We need him.
But those are the
conversations--
rather than this whole business
of death with the mortuary,
and the casket, and the
colors that you want to wear,
and the--
I mean, really?
Can we just have
as much emphasis
put on how would you
like to send me signals?
What should I look forward
to know that you're there?
How would you like
me to keep you
alive through this
level of consciousness?
Well, let's take a look here at
William Buhlman at the Monroe
Institute.
Take a look.
>>BUHLMAN: Think of
this for a moment.
Seven billion people
on the planet and we
don't know where we're headed
at this pivotal transition
of consciousness we call death.
Think of it.
We're on this 80, 90-year-old
journey, and we have no idea.
It's kind of a form of insanity.
We have everything
planned, tomorrow.
Tonight, you know exactly
what you're going to do.
Tomorrow, you know exactly
But here an entire
species has no idea
what's going to happen at
the moment this transition
of consciousness occurs.
That's unacceptable.
It's insanity it's
a form of amnesia.
We also, when you think
about it, dig deep,
we don't even know what we are.
And I'm going to explore
this in a moment.
We don't know where we
come from as consciousness
before we were born, do we?
We're suddenly here.
We accept the culture and
the society we're given,
and we do the best we can.
And then we connect to and
adapt to the social norms
and hope that
they're correct, hope
some give us solace, some of
us give us hope, some of us--
but there's no answers given.
That I find completely
unacceptable because,
as powerful spiritual
beings, we have the ability
to obtain the answers
for ourselves.
But we have to become
explorers of consciousness.
It's up to us
individually to learn
the methods, the
techniques so we
can explore deeply within
ourselves because the answers--
the old "X-Files,"
I believe it was,
said the answers are out there.
Totally false.
The answers are in here.
>>LISA: Wouldn't that be so much
more beneficial if we spent all
that time--
>>BUHLMAN: Well, now
that we're speaking
about this, one of the
things that I teach
and I wrote about
in my latest book
is simply this-- death can be
a launchpad of consciousness.
We've been trained to believe
the falsehood that death
is this terrible experience.
We're immortal.
I mean, there is
no death, really.
I mean, it's just a
facade, the illusion of it.
But death is an opportunity.
We can take death and
turn it into a launchpad
of consciousness.
At the moment of death, we
can turn this into this event,
in other words, by focusing our
consciousness, for instance,
"Higher Self Now."
Imagine if, instead of
being fearful of death,
we begin to focus on
our spiritual essence,
or whatever term, and turn
that into an affirmation.
Spiritual essence now.
Higher self now.
>>LISA: That's the
name of your book.
>>BUHLMAN: And then use that.
The Buddhists have been
saying this for centuries.
This is nothing new.
But it's been lost in
our society and culture.
We've been sold this bill of
goods about what death is.
It's like the page of a book.
>>LISA: What we're talking
about here isn't just
a spiritual conversation.
This is extreme practicality.
>>BUHLMAN: Oh yes.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>BUHLMAN: And plus, it
puts things in context.
>>LISA: Yeah, it does.
>>BUHLMAN: Once you experience
what you really are,
your whole reality changes.
Your perception of
reality changes.
What's important to you changes.
And your emphasis, then,
through life changes.
Your trajectory in life
changes because you're
no longer obsessed with
the acquisition of things
because you realize, oh
my god, I'm immortal.
I may have been here
before 50, 60 times.
I'm an evolving soul.
This is the importance--
I always say that we only take
one thing with us when we die,
and that's our state
of consciousness.
The only true valuable asset
we own, that we possess,
is our state of consciousness.
Everything else
doesn't go with us.
It's all just this--
it's just kind of junk
that we surround ourselves with
for a temporary period of time.
>>LISA: We have this a
lot as children, though.
And when we're younger,
we have this ability
to float in and
out and to really
live in a state of
consciousness before we
get bombarded with so many
responsibilities and the fear.
Would you say that
children are more
prone to these
out-of-body experiences?
>>BUHLMAN: Oh absolutely.
I write about this
in my second book.
In "Secret of the Soul" I
have a survey of 16,000 people
from 42 countries who
responded, and many of those
ended up being adolescent
and younger children,
or parents would send
me their experience.
I added an entire chapter
of nothing but children.
Children are
incredibly open to have
spontaneous out-of-body
experiences up to puberty.
But now looking
back, I had them.
But what did my mother tell me?
Oh, William, it's just a dream.
That's the kind of
thing we're told.
It's not taken seriously.
Everything is just
blanketed over.
But children are very
open to these experiences.
I have twin boys.
And when they were
young, they would
have out-of-body experiences.
And they would actually
tell me in the morning
they were playing ball
with my dead father-in-law.
I mean, he was dead
for a couple years.
And they would, "Pop Pop
come and we played ball."
That's the kind of experiences
most parents would have just
said, oh, that's just a dream.
I have two sons, and
they're both having
the same experience.
It's hard to blow that off.
>>LISA: That's fascinating.
Yeah.
>>BUHLMAN: But children
are incredibly open,
but they shut down.
As they move into puberty, all
humanity seems to shut down.
>>LISA: I understand why.
I have a teenage
daughter, and I see it.
I see it happen where the
outside influence becomes
more important than the inner
for a certain amount of time.
>>BUHLMAN: And
definite socialization.
>>LISA: Yeah, that's what it is.
>>BUHLMAN: And culture
indoctrination.
>>LISA: We all went through
it, and look how we turned out.
So it's not such a good thing.
So the study that you
did is fascinating.
So you took 16,000 people,
and you asked them what?
>>BUHLMAN: Well,
16,000 people responded
to a list of questions.
There were 10 questions about
out-of-body experiences,
about whether they
had one, what it
was like, what kind of
precursor, kind of energies
surrounded that
event, in other words.
And then what I did is compiled
it and put it into a format.
What's amazing is
how many people
have had the same
type of precursor.
>>LISA: So precursor in terms
of an event that happened
in their life or
something that--
>>BUHLMAN: Energy events.
For instance, before an OBE,
it's quite common for people
to experience vibrations,
sounds, buzzing sensations,
seeing through close eyelids.
You're laying in bed at night,
and people blow this off,
and you're seeing
through closed eyelids.
You're already phasing
out of your body.
You're shifting
into another state.
People don't realize what it is.
A typical-- and this
frightens people--
sleep paralysis.
Sleep paralysis is a prelude.
If you know how to
stay calm and know
how to do the right
procedure, you
can easily initiate an
out-of-body experience
from sleep paralysis
or when you're
seeing through closed eyelids.
>>LISA: Wait, don't we already
do those things when we sleep?
>>BUHLMAN: Oh, absolutely.
>>LISA: So how is
that considered
an out-of-body experience?
>>BUHLMAN: No, I'm
saying this is a prelude.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>BUHLMAN: But this
is the precursor.
In other words, people have
these events all the time,
but they don't react to it.
In other words, they remain
focused on their physical body
and their physical sensations.
>>LISA: Oh, so you're saying we
already go into sleep paralysis
when we sleep, of course.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: But to take
that to the next level.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: That's
how you get into--
that's the gateway to the OBE.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes, that's
one of the gateways.
>>LISA: OK.
>>BUHLMAN: And you stay
calm, and you focus.
You disconnect your
conscious, your awareness.
You de-focus off the body,
which locks you into the body,
and then you begin to
focus, like door now,
or what is commonly
a technique used
by many people around the
world, simple roll now.
You imagine yourself
rolling away
from your body,
mentally rolling.
It's like your
consciousness isn't-- like,
you're in a sleeping bag, and
the sleeping bag is your body.
And you are mentally rolling.
And that's one of
the procedures people
use to initiate
a fully conscious
out-of-body experience
from sleep paralysis,
or seeing through closed
eyelids, or the vibrations.
>>LISA: OK.
So once you start that process,
rolling outside your body,
do you have a
destination to go to?
>>BUHLMAN: Well, I train
everyone, number one,
go away from your body.
Pick a locale, door now.
Make it simple.
Make it repeatable.
And then, from there, then
you just reinforce that state
that you're in, and
then there's no limit.
>>LISA: That-- but
there might be.
What if there are realms that
you might not want to go into,
realms that have a lot of hate
or that have a lot of fear?
I mean, do you want to stay
tethered to the ones that
are of higher--
>>BUHLMAN: Well, absolutely.
But people go where their
consciousness is focused.
That's why it's important
to learn about the subject,
so you're not fear based.
That's why it's good to get
educated about the topic.
That's why I have
a six-day workshop
and I've written four
books, because I want
people to be knowledgeable.
I want people to be fearless,
because we're immortal.
What's there to fear, really?
We're immortal beings.
We're incredibly powerful.
We create our reality.
When we leave our
bodies, we're entering
into a thought-responsive
dimensional space.
And we were even more
powerful in that space.
>>LISA: So we have
this chart here
that talks about the
evolution of consciousness,
and it shows that there's
a baseline of where
your physical body.
And it starts there.
So basically everybody has
this level of evolution.
Can you talk a little
bit about this?
>>BUHLMAN: Well, we all
go through a series.
One of the purposes
of this is to give
an idea of just how small
the physical world is.
The physical world--
the common theory
is that there is this
curtain between the physical
and the non-physical,
like they're equal.
We know from-- I know from
45 years of experience,
and we know from thousands
of people having OBEs,
the physical world
is a thin epidermis
of the multi-dimensional
universe, the thin outer crust.
And that's what we're
experiencing around us.
We think this is a
center of reality.
It's not.
It's the outermost
portion of reality.
And as we leave our
bodies, whether it
be through meditation
or whatever the method,
we're actually entering, we're
shifting our consciousness
inward into the
non-physical realms,
this other dimensional
spaces of the universe.
And that's part of the
reason for this chart.
It's difficult to convey
these multi-dimensional spaces
in a two-dimensional diagram.
But the bottom line is
we are already there.
We're multi-dimensional beings.
We're not physical.
This is a temporary experience.
And when we have an
out-of-body body experience,
we're actually
beginning to experience
our essence of ourselves
or parts of ourselves.
>>LISA: So we go from
the physical body
to the conscious mind,
which is consciousness,
and then the subconscious
mind is outside of that
or above that?
>>BUHLMAN: It's all parts of us.
We're multi-dimensional beings.
>>LISA: OK.
So there's no order.
>>BUHLMAN: Well, there is,
but it's a matter of density.
As we go inward, the universe
becomes less and less dense
and more and more
thought responsive.
We know that from
thousands of people
having out-of-body
experiences and having
the same kind of experience.
This chart kind of gives
us an overlay of it,
that when we meditate,
we're shifting inward,
but we're not externalizing.
Generally, you stay within,
but you're moving into,
let's just call it, other
aspects of ourselves.
But during an
out-of-body experience,
we're shifting our consciousness
and, for a brief period
of time, exteriorizing
that aspect.
In other words, the old
concepts of body, mind, spirit
are primitive and inaccurate.
We are multi-dimensional beings.
We exist on many
different dimensions.
And when you have an
out-of-body experience,
you're shifting
your consciousness
into an energy body that
is already an aspect of us,
of all of us.
>>LISA: I mean, the
wonderful people who meditate
and also some of our
incredibly enlightened beings,
gurus and whatnot,
understand how
to elevate into these
different dimensions.
But we call them the Maharishi,
or we call them gurus.
You're saying that we
can do this ourselves,
that we can have the experiences
that these enlightened beings
have had.
>>BUHLMAN: Oh, absolutely.
>>LISA: Maybe they spend more
hours doing it, of course.
But we can do this
at our own level.
>>BUHLMAN: We definitely can.
And if you look back
through history,
if you look back through
all the biblical, all
the spiritual text, whether
it be the Bible or the Koran,
there's a common element.
These mystics and saints,
what were they actually
doing when they always talk
about, I was in the spirit?
For instance, Revelation begins
with, I was in the spirit,
and then he goes on to describe
this non-physical city.
Obviously he's not
in his body anymore.
This is a common thread
throughout the history
of biblical and spiritual texts.
Mohammed talks about seven
heavens or seven dimensions.
The Buddhist have been
talking about this
for hundreds of years.
"The Tibetan Book of the
Dead" talks about this.
This is the common element.
It's a thread running
throughout the entire history
of spiritual texts.
I don't care what
society and what culture.
If you analyze it, if you throw
away all this, let's call it,
linguistics involved, what
were they experiencing?
They're leaving their bodies.
And they're using your own
dialogue, their own language
to explain these.
That's why this is important.
And the out-of-body experience
is that central experience
that mystics have talked about
from the beginning of time.
But they framed it in their
own cultural experience.
>>LISA: Right.
>>BUHLMAN: I mean, in "Second
Corinthian," St. Paul talks
about the third heaven.
>>LISA: Can we connect to
our own level of guides?
Do they really--
I know mine exists because
I wouldn't be here today.
But have you experienced that
when people come back through
their out-of-body experiences
that they say, I met a guide,
I met a--
>>BUHLMAN: Oh, absolutely.
People have all kinds
of profound experiences.
They actually meet
personal guides.
They meet loved ones.
I write about this extensively.
I write about meeting
my deceased mother
on multiple occasions.
But people do this.
What's important is that you
don't have to be special.
We've been
conditioned to believe
that these people,
these mystics,
were all-- they were special,
they had special abilities,
and that we're not special.
>>LISA: But some do.
I mean, I think that the ones
that talk to the dead, that
have these incredible abilities,
like James Van Praagh,
they really can go
into other dimensions.
But they have a lot
more practice at it.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: 20, 30, 40
years of practice
at it-- and if we did
that, we would probably
wind up with the same thing.
>>BUHLMAN: Yes, some
people are definitely
more open to it than others.
>>LISA: So we do talk about
demystifying death here
because we both
kind of been having
these experiences for a while.
But what about the
ones you leave behind?
I mean, my greatest
fear is my daughter
not having the same experience
of knowledge that I have
because she's so much younger.
But we leave behind young ones,
or we leave behind loved ones,
and they go through
a lot of suffering
because they have experienced
the death rhetoric,
I guess I'll call it.
I mean, my daughter, when I
tried to talk to her about it,
wasn't ready.
I said, can we communicate
through flowers?
And she just started crying,
and she wasn't ready to talk.
That's hard when you're just
starting this conversation,
but although I love flowers,
and she loves flowers.
My mom and I have had
this conversation.
We'll communicate through
clouds because we love clouds.
But that's just 101
on how to do this.
How do you get engaged
with this conversation
with a child that might
not be ready for it?
>>BUHLMAN: Well, I think it's
all about you have to just
start where they--
you have to come from
wherever they are.
Every child is different.
I think that's the
key that you have
to find out, where is the state
of consciousness of the child?
And then try to
get to their level
and how to approach them
to bring this down to earth
for them, that love continues.
I think this is another
important aspect
of that consciousness.
We continue.
Consciousness continues.
Nothing dies.
And that we even-- it's not
just in an airy-fairy way,
but that if I was
to die, my sons know
that my consciousness, my love
for them is always present.
And I think that's a real
comfort to know that.
But also, it's
important, I think,
for children to
begin to be trained
in a way in how to become
more self-empowered
and not to be sucked into
the belief systems that
are so prevalent
and then to teach
them to be more open to ideas.
And I think all that counts.
>>LISA: If you see
so many people going
through these
out-of-body travel,
and if you see them connecting
with loved ones that
have crossed over,
again and again
and again you see and
you hear about this,
then it would be possible,
then, if I were to pass on
and my daughter
were to go into one
of these out-of-body
experiences,
she could connect
with me there, right?
>>BUHLMAN: Absolutely.
And that happens.
People connect
with their children
I've received letters
of, actually--
that people, women
who were pregnant that
had an out-of-body
experience actually
had communication with their
child before they were born.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>BUHLMAN: I didn't want to
get into too much of this.
>>LISA: I did that.
I did that.
>>BUHLMAN: I mean,
people experience this.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BUHLMAN: We have an ability
to open up and experience
our children on a
whole different level.
And then they open up to
that experience even more so.
>>LISA: So as we.
ourselves, are going through
these different levels,
these journeys, can we go into,
as you say, our higher self
and start to work with our
future and our destiny?
Can we start to really not
manipulate, but grow or become
more of our fuller potential
in these other dimensions?
How can we use this for
developing ourselves
personally?
>>BUHLMAN: Yeah.
I think one of the
number one things.
When you have an
out-of-body experience,
many people don't know that--
a lot of people think you're
just walking through walls
and doing stuff like
this, very physical like.
That's not the purpose.
Maybe initially
that's interesting.
What I teach people to do-- and
I'd like to share an experience
I had that kind of
brings it down to earth.
This goes back many years ago.
I had a traditional
out-of-body experience
where I did it an exit,
then I moved to the door.
But instead of just traveling
laterally, what I did
is I focused on stabilizing
my energy field,
and I just demanded
higher self now.
And what happened
was I suddenly--
and this is difficult
to try to convey.
But I found that my entire
state of consciousness,
my perception of it was
I'm shooting through--
moving through layers
of color and light
at the speed of light.
And it's shockingly fast.
And the next thing
I know I'm floating
in this sea of white
light, of stars
and pure white light, pure
consciousness and love.
And it's impossible.
No words that I have can't
really convey this experience.
But I was connected
to everything
for that moment, seemed
to know everything.
But this is so important
because you know.
Beliefs are no longer
needed because you know.
You move from a
believer to a knower,
and that's a huge shift.
And then, then, things
fall into context.
And then slowly I return back
to that state of consciousness.
This is repeatable.
This is the same--
many years ago, I
did a conference,
and it was all yogis and myself.
And everybody's up
there for a weekend
describing their experiences,
somati and all the--
and I realize, all these people,
didn't matter what culture they
come from and what training,
everybody was basically
saying the same thing.
They're having these
profound inner experiences.
And they're trying
to convey them
in a very limited form
through their language,
but they're all having
the same experience.
Call it source.
Call it soul.
It doesn't matter.
Labels don't matter.
>>LISA: No.
>>BUHLMAN: But
you suddenly know.
And it puts
everything in context.
And suddenly, what's important--
daily life changes.
>>LISA: Which is so interesting.
Now, you can go
into these expanded
states of consciousness, but you
can also go into experiences,
maybe, if you have a writer's
block or if you're trying to--
say if you want to
find a new career path
or figure out something
you can't figure out
in this current reality,
how to make a job change
or how to make even--
>>BUHLMAN: Yes.
Oh, absolutely.
>>LISA: I mean, for
lack of a good--
how to make more
money or whatever.
If you want to learn
that, do you ever
take people on journeys
into that level
of how to get to the
next level of thinking?
>>BUHLMAN: Well, I train people
how to react and how to respond
and the benefits,
and what can you do?
For instance, the
title of this book
come to me from an
out-of-body experience.
It's like suddenly everything
was clear, and I knew it.
Your future already-- future
is nothing but thought forms.
When you leave your
body, we are, in a way,
entering our own
potential energy future
because we're entering into
dimensions of our own thought
forms.
And all around
everybody, they're
carrying thought forms
of their own future.
That's what psychics read.
>>LISA: Right.
>>BUHLMAN: And that's how
they can pick up on things.
So during an
out-of-body experience,
you have an opportunity to
connect with and mold, actually
mold.
If you stay calm and
are totally focused,
you can begin to powerfully
mold a new future,
a new dynamic
future for yourself.
>>LISA: So we've
talked about this, now,
from most of the show,
and I want to guide people
through an experience.
And say what you say,
door now, window now,
or how to get to
the next dimension.
And we can experience this
a little bit here with you.
Let's go through this.
Is it OK?
>>BUHLMAN: OK, sure.
>>LISA: I know we're
not going to go
into a deep state of trance.
>>BUHLMAN: OK.
One way, one simple way,
is just close your eyes
and take a deep
cleansing breath.
And just center yourself.
And imagine that a
white cleansing light
is coming down from above
and relaxing every part
of your body and mind.
And just allow yourself
to go and relax
and to go as deep as possible,
letting go all thought.
And then one of the simple
techniques that you can do
is to imagine that there
is a boulder before you,
a big stone.
And on this stone,
we are going to begin
to carve an affirmation.
And we're going to use
the power of our mind.
So first imagine this
boulder, this stone, or block,
or marble, and we're going
to carve an intention.
And this intention
will be, now, feel
yourself carving
each letter, now,
N-O-W. I have an OBE,
meaning, of course,
out-of-body experience.
You can imagine, if you
wish, in this experience,
that you have a
chisel or a laser,
and it's carving each
letter into the stone,
making it powerful,
making it permanent.
And you're carving
your intention.
Intention is so incredibly
important in our lives.
Now I have an OBE.
And you hold this intention
as your last conscious thought
as you drift and let go.
And you repeat this
until you drift off
and allow your body to just
drift away, letting go,
releasing all thought
until it becomes
a permanent part of you.
And by doing this and by
repeating it, it's simple,
it's easy, and you
repeat this every night
as you're falling asleep.
And hold it as your
last conscious thought.
This has been proven to
initiate fully conscious
out-of-body experiences.
>>LISA: Wonderful.
And then you can go on
your journey from there
to where you want to go, if it's
to create a different future,
a different reality, or
go down a certain path,
or imagine a healed body or a
connection with a loved one.
You can go to all sorts--
>>BUHLMAN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: -- of different realms,
or possibilities, I should say.
>>BUHLMAN: There's no limit
because we're immortal souls
with no limits whatsoever.
>>LISA: What's the
difference between that,
the out-of-body experience,
and actually just
going into intention
setting and meditations?
Is it the same thing, really?
>>BUHLMAN: The first
step is the same.
The difference in an OBE
is that people typically
feel an exteriorization.
They feel this
experience of separation
on some level from the body
where they no longer feel
connected to the body.
>>LISA: Is that important?
>>BUHLMAN: For
many people, it is.
You can have
profound experiences
without feeling,
of course, this.
But I'm just saying,
generally, that's where
the term comes from.
I don't want to get too deep
into this whole concept,
but you can have in-the-body
experiences, as well, just
by shifting your consciousness
through your multi-dimensional
self.
So you don't have
two exteriorize.
And that's exactly what yogis
have been teaching forever
through deep trance
meditation and through mantras
and intention.
It's the same process.
The only minor detail is this
feeling of exteriorization.
>>LISA: So when you say
the word "now," "door now,"
or "OBE now," or
"higher self now,"
is that an anchor
or a gateway into--
is there an intentionality
with that word?
>>BUHLMAN: Absolutely.
The idea-- most
people are fixated
on their physical bodies.
And you have to train
yourself to begin
to project or direct
your consciousness away
from your body.
For our entire lives, we've
been totally focused--
most people have been totally
focused on their bodies.
>>LISA: Survival.
>>BUHLMAN: Yeah.
And you have to
break that trend.
You have to break
that conditioning.
And the whole idea of door
now and other easy techniques
is to begin to focus your
conscious awareness away
from your body so that you have
your own profound experience.
And that's part of the
essential nature of it.
And also, that's where the
verification comes from.
It's when you're in
your body, many people
find it more difficult
to verify, where was I?
It's meditation, then.
And I'm a meditator.
I love meditation.
But to me, out-of-body
experience is just more--
it just ups that game more.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>BUHLMAN: It's more
exciting for me and others.
>>LISA: Now, do you recommend
writing down your experiences
or recording them afterwards?
>>BUHLMAN: Oh, absolutely.
It's so important
to keep a journal.
I strongly believe in journal.
I have boxes of journals.
>>LISA: Yeah, just
so you can remember.
>>BUHLMAN: Because it helps
to condition and program
your subconscious mind to
accept this more fully.
We have to reprogram
ourselves, essentially.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Well, you have a lot
of incredible resources
here, as well.
And I've been
meaning to ask you,
what is your biggest
why that you do this?
What's your biggest reason?
>>BUHLMAN: Answers.
Now, my biggest why--
I want the answers
to everything.
I want to know,
absolutely know where
I'm going, what that
reality is like,
not some nebulous that's heaven.
I want to know.
I want to know
where I come from.
I want to know what
my real trajectory is.
What's my evolution,
and where am I headed?
Where am I going?
I want to know these things.
I want to know the purpose.
Why am I here?
I want to know it all.
>>LISA: Wow, so many things.
Thank you so much, William.
You're such a fountain
of information,
and you demystify the
out-of-body experience,
and the out-of-body
traveling and journeying
that you're doing is
incredible for people.
So thank you very much for that.
>>BUHLMAN: Well, thank you.
It's been a pleasure.
>>LISA: Well, thank you so much
for sharing this experience
with me.
If you'd like to find more
inspirational programming,
go to inspirationsongaia.com.
I'm Lisa Garr.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay aware.
[MUSIC PLAYING]